CHOOSE YOUR TYPE: An expression focused on the relation between literary voice and typography using riTa. 

MOTIVATION: As far as I can see, Markov chains are pretty good at generating meaningless gibberish that may not create something semantically useful, but I realize it elegantly brings out the light of a writer's voice. From this, I wanted to construct poetry that had a clear voice, in spite of being devoid of meaning (and perhaps the times where there are meaning -- that is a beautiful accident in itself!). Additionally, there is a very visual element of the voice of a writer. Thus, I wanted to translate the voice, in some form, to something visual. Type seemed to be a viable option. There is something about an old serif that echoes Bronte or some of my favorite french writers... the cleanliness of Murakami's glassy tone echoes a modern sans serif... Lauren Groff is very watery, but elegantly so. From these thoughts, I sought to create a poetry generator where the distinctions in tone and color could be emphasized by the physical display of the poetry. Thus, choose your type!

GENERATOR RUN DOWN: Using riTa grammar to generate author bios + markov chains to generate sentences from the inputted text. The riTa grammar part is pretty straight forward, it was something fun that I just wanted to do to get used to the library at first. The author bios follow a strict syntax. For the content, I took inspiration from the characters/themes/objects in the texts that I retrieved them from, such as the water bottle heir in Lauren Groff's Fates and Furies, or the Brahms symphonies that are mentioned in numerous Murakami novels.

After the grammar, I decided to web scrape the New Yorker to get pure text files (scraping.ipynb file) of some of the stories I was interested in using. I used Beautiful Soup and wrote a python script to automate this.

After, I would feed textfiles through the riTa Markov generator library. I produce the titles using parts of the produced poem and the Datamuse API for additional alterations. For line break, I create enjambment for the inconsolata and raleway types by increasing the probability of line breaks in the midst of phrases (such as after adjectives). For the crimson text and playfair display, I take a more rhythmic/conventional approach that appears to be more fluid, inspired by by older, romantic poetry, concentrating the line breaks around natural pauses in the sentences. These features to the line breaks and parsing were things I developed later on through further iterations of my design.
